README.md, before:

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/razor.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/razor)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SRI-CSL/OCCAM.svg?branch=llvm10)](https://travis-ci.org/SRI-CSL/OCCAM)

Description
============

[OCCAM](https://github.com/SRI-CSL/OCCAM) is a whole-program partial evaluator for LLVM bitcode that aims at debloating programs and shared/static libraries running in a specific deployment context.

OCCAM architecture
==================

![OCCAM architecture](https://github.com/SRI-CSL/OCCAM/blob/master/OCCAM-arch.jpg?raw=true "OCCAM architecture")

Docker
======

A pre-built and installed version of OCCAM can be obtained using Docker:

```shell
docker pull sricsl/occam10:bionic
docker run -v `pwd`:/host -it sricsl/occam10:bionic
```
Alternatively, it can be built and installed from source as follows.

Prerequisites
============

OCCAM currently works on Linux, macOS, and FreeBSD.  It depends on an installation of LLVM. OCCAM currently requires llvm-10.0. You will also need the Google protocol buffer compiler `protoc` and the corresponding Python [package](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/protobuf/).

If you need to generate application bitcode (that OCCAM operates on), you will want to install WLLVM, either from the the pip [package](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/wllvm/) or the GitHub [repository](https://github.com/SRI-CSL/whole-program-llvm.git).

The test harness also requires [lit](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/lit/) and `FileCheck`. `FileCheck` can often be found in the binary directory of your LLVM installation. However, if you built your own, you may need to read [this.](https://bugs.llvm.org//show_bug.cgi?id=25675) Hint: the build produces it, but does not install it. (Try `locate FileCheck`, then copy it to the `bin` directory.)

Detailed configuration instructions for Ubuntu 14.04 can be gleaned from [bootstrap.sh](https://github.com/SRI-CSL/OCCAM/blob/master/vagrants/14.04/basic/bootstrap.sh) as well as the Travis CI scripts for each branch [.travis.yml](https://github.com/SRI-CSL/OCCAM/blob/master/.travis.yml).

Building and Installing
=======================

Set where OCCAM's library will be stored:
```
  export OCCAM_HOME={path to location in your home directory}
```

Point to your LLVM's location, if non-standard:
```
  export LLVM_HOME=/usr/local/llvm-10.0
  export LLVM_CONFIG=llvm-config-10.0
```

Set where system libraries, including Google Protocol Buffers, are located:
```
  export LD_FLAGS='-L/usr/local/lib'
```

Clone, build, and install OCCAM with:

```
  git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/SRI-CSL/OCCAM.git
  make
  make install
  make test
```

Using OCCAM
===========

You can choose to record logs from OCCAM by setting the following variables:

```
  export OCCAM_LOGFILE={absolute path to log location}
  export OCCAM_LOGLEVEL={INFO, WARNING, or ERROR}
```

Using razor
===========

`razor` is a pip package that relies on the same dynamic library as `occam`. So you should first build and install `occam` as described above. `razor`  provides the commandline tool `slash` for end users. You can either install `razor` from this repository, or you can use:
```
pip install razor
```

To install an editable version from this repository:

```
make -f Makefile develop
```

This may require sudo priviliges. Either way you can now use `slash`:

```
slash [--work-dir=<dir>]  [--force] [--no-strip] [--intra-spec-policy=<type>] [--inter-spec-policy=<type>] [--use-pointer-analysis] [--enable-config-prime] <manifest>
```

where 

```
type=none|aggressive|nonrec-aggressive|bounded|onlyonce
```

The value `none` will prevent any inter or intra-module specialization. The value `aggressive` specializes a call if any parameter is a constant. The value `nonrec-aggressive` specializes a call if the function is non-recursive and any parameter is a constant. The value `bounded` makes at most `k` copies where `k` can be chosen by option `--max-bounded-spec`. The value `onlyonce` makes a copy of a function only if the function is called exactly once.

To function correctly `slash` calls LLVM tools such as `opt` and `clang++`. These should be available in your `PATH`, and be the currently supported version (10.0). Like `wllvm`, `slash`, will pay attention to the environment variables `LLVM_OPT_NAME` and `LLVM_CXX_NAME` if your version of these tools is adorned with suffixes.

The Manifest(o)
===============

The manifest for `slash` should be valid JSON. The following keys have meaning:

+ `main` : a path to the bitcode module containing the `main` entry point.

+ `modules`: a list of paths to the other bitcode modules needed.

+ `binary` : the name of the desired executable.

+ `native_libs` : a list of flags (`-lm`, `-lc`, `-lpthread`) or paths to native objects (`.o`, `.a`, `.so`, `.dylib`)

+ `ldflags`: a list of linker flags such as `--static`, `--nostdlib`

+ `args` : the list of arguments you wish to specialize in the _main()_ of `main`.

+ `constraints` : a list consisting of a positive integer, followed by some number of strings. The
number indicates the expected number of arguments the specialized program will receive, and the
remaing strings are the specialized arguments to the original program.

Note that `args` and `constraints` are mutually exclusive. If you use one you should not use the other.

As an example, (see `examples/linux/apache`), to previrtualize apache:

```
{ "main" : "httpd.bc"
, "binary"  : "httpd_slashed"
, "modules"    : ["libapr-1.so.bc", "libaprutil-1.so.bc", "libpcre.so.bc"]
, "native_libs" : ["-lcrypt", "-ldl", "-lpthread"]
, "args"    : ["-d", "/var/www"]
, "name"    : "httpd"
}
```

Another example, (see `examples/linux/musl_nweb`), specializes `nweb` with `musl libc.c`:
```
{ "main" :  "nweb.o.bc"
, "binary"  : "nweb_razor"
, "modules"    : ["libc.a.bc"]
, "native_libs" : ["crt1.o", "libc.a"]
, "ldflags" : ["-static", "-nostdlib"]
, "args"    : ["8181", "./root"]
, "name"    : "nweb"
}
```

A third example, (see `examples/portfolio/tree`),  illustrates the use of the `constraints` field to partially specialize the arguments to the `tree` utility.
```
{ "main" : "tree.bc"
, "binary"  : "tree"
, "modules"    : []
, "native_libs" : []
, "ldflags" : [ "-O2" ]
, "name"    : "tree"
, "constraints" : ["1", "tree", "-J", "-h"]
}
```

The specialized program will output its results in JSON notation (-J) that will include a human readable size field (-h). The specialized program expects one extra argument, either a directory or another flag to output the contents of the current working directory.

---

This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant [ACI-1440800](http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1440800). Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation.

Commit message:

refactor: replaced manifest fields args and constraints
We have replaced args and constraints with static_args and
dynamic_args, respectively.

- static_args is a list of static arguments to specialize the program.

- dynamic_args is a the number of arguments that the specialized
  program will receive at runtime.

README.md, after:

[![PyPI version](https://badge.fury.io/py/razor.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/py/razor)
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/SRI-CSL/OCCAM.svg?branch=llvm10)](https://travis-ci.org/SRI-CSL/OCCAM)

Description
============

[OCCAM](https://github.com/SRI-CSL/OCCAM) is a whole-program partial evaluator for LLVM bitcode that aims at debloating programs and shared/static libraries running in a specific deployment context.

OCCAM architecture
==================

![OCCAM architecture](https://github.com/SRI-CSL/OCCAM/blob/master/OCCAM-arch.jpg?raw=true "OCCAM architecture")

Docker
======

A pre-built and installed version of OCCAM can be obtained using Docker:

```shell
docker pull sricsl/occam10:bionic
docker run -v `pwd`:/host -it sricsl/occam10:bionic
```
Alternatively, it can be built and installed from source as follows.

Prerequisites
============

OCCAM currently works on Linux, macOS, and FreeBSD.  It depends on an installation of LLVM. OCCAM currently requires llvm-10.0. You will also need the Google protocol buffer compiler `protoc` and the corresponding Python [package](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/protobuf/).

If you need to generate application bitcode (that OCCAM operates on), you will want to install WLLVM, either from the the pip [package](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/wllvm/) or the GitHub [repository](https://github.com/SRI-CSL/whole-program-llvm.git).

The test harness also requires [lit](https://pypi.python.org/pypi/lit/) and `FileCheck`. `FileCheck` can often be found in the binary directory of your LLVM installation. However, if you built your own, you may need to read [this.](https://bugs.llvm.org//show_bug.cgi?id=25675) Hint: the build produces it, but does not install it. (Try `locate FileCheck`, then copy it to the `bin` directory.)

Detailed configuration instructions for Ubuntu 14.04 can be gleaned from [bootstrap.sh](https://github.com/SRI-CSL/OCCAM/blob/master/vagrants/14.04/basic/bootstrap.sh) as well as the Travis CI scripts for each branch [.travis.yml](https://github.com/SRI-CSL/OCCAM/blob/master/.travis.yml).

Building and Installing
=======================

Set where OCCAM's library will be stored:
```
  export OCCAM_HOME={path to location in your home directory}
```

Point to your LLVM's location, if non-standard:
```
  export LLVM_HOME=/usr/local/llvm-10.0
  export LLVM_CONFIG=llvm-config-10.0
```

Set where system libraries, including Google Protocol Buffers, are located:
```
  export LD_FLAGS='-L/usr/local/lib'
```

Clone, build, and install OCCAM with:

```
  git clone --recurse-submodules https://github.com/SRI-CSL/OCCAM.git
  make
  make install
  make test
```

Using OCCAM
===========

You can choose to record logs from OCCAM by setting the following variables:

```
  export OCCAM_LOGFILE={absolute path to log location}
  export OCCAM_LOGLEVEL={INFO, WARNING, or ERROR}
```

Using razor
===========

`razor` is a pip package that relies on the same dynamic library as `occam`. So you should first build and install `occam` as described above. `razor`  provides the commandline tool `slash` for end users. You can either install `razor` from this repository, or you can use:
```
pip install razor
```

To install an editable version from this repository:

```
make -f Makefile develop
```

This may require sudo priviliges. Either way you can now use `slash`:

```
slash [--work-dir=<dir>]  [--force] [--no-strip] [--intra-spec-policy=<type>] [--inter-spec-policy=<type>] [--use-pointer-analysis] [--enable-config-prime] <manifest>
```

where 

```
type=none|aggressive|nonrec-aggressive|bounded|onlyonce
```

The value `none` will prevent any inter or intra-module specialization. The value `aggressive` specializes a call if any parameter is a constant. The value `nonrec-aggressive` specializes a call if the function is non-recursive and any parameter is a constant. The value `bounded` makes at most `k` copies where `k` can be chosen by option `--max-bounded-spec`. The value `onlyonce` makes a copy of a function only if the function is called exactly once.

To function correctly `slash` calls LLVM tools such as `opt` and `clang++`. These should be available in your `PATH`, and be the currently supported version (10.0). Like `wllvm`, `slash`, will pay attention to the environment variables `LLVM_OPT_NAME` and `LLVM_CXX_NAME` if your version of these tools is adorned with suffixes.

The Manifest(o)
===============

The manifest for `slash` should be valid JSON. The following keys have meaning:

+ `main` : a path to the bitcode module containing the `main` entry point.

+ `modules`: a list of paths to the other bitcode modules needed.

+ `binary` : the name of the desired executable.

+ `native_libs` : a list of flags (`-lm`, `-lc`, `-lpthread`) or paths to native objects (`.o`, `.a`, `.so`, `.dylib`)

+ `ldflags`: a list of linker flags such as `--static`, `--nostdlib`

+ `name`: the program name 

+ `static_args` : the list of static arguments you wish to specialize in the _main()_ of `main`.

+ `dynamic_args` : a number that indicates the arguments the specialized program will receive at runtime. If this key is omitted then the default value is 0 which means that the specialized program does not expect any parameter. 

As an example, (see `examples/linux/apache`), to previrtualize apache:

```
{ "main" : "httpd.bc"
, "binary" : "httpd_slashed"
, "modules" : ["libapr-1.so.bc", "libaprutil-1.so.bc", "libpcre.so.bc"]
, "native_libs" : ["-lcrypt", "-ldl", "-lpthread"]
, "name"    : "httpd"
, "static_args" : ["-d", "/var/www"]
}
```

Another example, (see `examples/linux/musl_nweb`), specializes `nweb` with `musl libc.c`:
```
{ "main" :  "nweb.o.bc"
, "binary" : "nweb_razor"
, "modules" : ["libc.a.bc"]
, "native_libs" : ["crt1.o", "libc.a"]
, "ldflags" : ["-static", "-nostdlib"]
, "name" : "nweb"
, "static_args" : ["8181", "./root"]
, "dynamic_args" : "0"
}
```

A third example, (see `examples/portfolio/tree`),  illustrates the use of the `dynamic_args` field to partially specialize the arguments to the `tree` utility.
```
{ "main" : "tree.bc"
, "binary"  : "tree"
, "modules"    : []
, "native_libs" : []
, "ldflags" : [ "-O2" ]
, "name"    : "tree"
, "static_args" : ["-J", "-h"]
, "dynamic_args" : "1"
}
```

The specialized program will output its results in JSON notation (-J) that will include a human readable size field (-h). The specialized program expects one extra argument, either a directory or another flag to output the contents of the current working directory.

---

This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant [ACI-1440800](http://www.nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1440800). Any opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation.
